Hello, freak bitches. <laugh> so you're, you're working with Rick Ruben now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's awesome.
Yeah. Rick's fantastic. What is that like.
Though, for you being like a guy who's kind of like,
you've kind of controlled everything before, right? Yeah, totally. Yeah.
So what is it like for you to have Ruben in the mix?
Yeah, well, Rick's a friend, so for me it was like,
I was sort of at a low point and he kind of picked me up when I was down.
So it was like,
I didn't mind sort of trusting him with like the head part of it all. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> kind of like,
you deal with that part and I'm just gonna sort of be up the performer in the,
the weird guy in the corner. Did it give you relief? Oh yeah. Yeah.
I felt like it allowed me to on the music and the performance and sort of just
freed me to just, you know, let whatever,
because sometimes you can psych yourself out. I dunno if that makes any sense,
like, yeah, you can have a really good song, you know,
it's a good song and then you start second guessing yourself. Mm.
And then you start thinking, well, maybe this song's not good enough. And,
and then that'll,
that'll infiltrate into your performance as opposed to being free. Like, Hey,
I've just got a good song. And if that one doesn't work,
I've got another good song. Yeah.
So letting Rick kind of do the picking and choosing,
and that's a good take and that's a good song. It was just like, okay,
I'm just gonna kind of just go down this road.
It took me back to sort of a more innocent way of approaching the work.
And I'm very grateful to him for that.
That's awesome. Yeah. It's gotta be it a mind.
To create something and then practice it and rehearse it over and over again and
tweak it and mess with it and not know really like not,
not almost not be able to be objective.
Anymore. Yeah. Well, the weird thing is, is I hope people can appreciate how,
I mean, it is like at one point when I, my ear was really to the ground,
I was able to do that. I was both able be objective and subjectve, mm-hmm,
<affirmative> be the writer and be the producer. Right.
And I hit a lot of home runs. So then you get kind of like,
I know what I'm doing. Right. So then when it stops working,
you have two choices. You can blame yourself,
which is the natural thing you should do, or you can blame others.
And once you start blaming others, you're in this hallomes. Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, instead of RA raising your hand saying, okay, I've had a good run.
Now I need, it's like getting a coach or something.
Like maybe a guy goes on a losing streak and needs springing a new coach,
just to say, I think you need to work on your offensive. You know what I mean?
Just somebody to tweak you. Yeah.
But when you're flying a thousand miles an hour and you're selling gazillions of
records and making all this money,
and you're surrounded by a bunch of sick fans, they're not gonna tell you,
Hey man, you need, you need, you know,
you need the doctor to come in and kind of sort, sort your head out. Yeah.
So then you start going this way.
And then that's when it gets like hall mirrors. So that's where,
that's where my own hubris sort of got in my own way.
I couldn't accept that I got on a losing streak and then, you know,
go to somebody like Rick and say, I, I, some help. I need some objective help.
I'm did.
You feel yourself?
Like when you were listening to the music that you were creating,
did you feel like you were on a losing streak? No.
No. So it sounded, I couldn't, I couldn't,
I couldn't intellectually understand why I was failing.
It didn't make any sense to me. And sometimes it's just generational.
It's the market changes, whatever. It's not personal. Right.
It feels incredibly personal, which is why it's easier to blame somebody else.
Right. Right. Like you don't understand the depth of my, yeah. My work here.
I'm so deep and you, you're not following my, my meta path or so,
you know what I mean? Yeah. And look, it's most, most entertainment is pop,
right? I mean, you you're a comedian. I mean, it's like, yeah,
if you go up and tell a bunch of jokes and the audience doesn't laugh,
whose's fault, is it? Well.
The, the,
the mind of music to me has always been very fascinating because you guys create
it in like a vacuum almost totally, almost. And then you bring it to the people.
Like when you release an album, they get it. And it's done. It's like, holy,
here it is. And you know,
a big fan plays it for the first time and they're listening to it. They're like,
oh, like it's, it's all. Whereas we, uh,
have ideas and I need an audience to create,
like I need to be around them. Yeah. I can't,
I can only create so much on a laptop. Mm. Most of it has to be like,
fine tuned refine. So by the time I record something, I already know it works.
Ah, yeah. It's already been tested. Right.
So that's go back to my point. If you get on a winning streak and you're,
you're creating things in a bubble and then they work well, then you're,
you wanna take all the credit for it. Yeah. Yeah.
You forget all the thousand hours in the bedroom that you listen to Jimmy
Hendricks or yeah. You know, about how amersible fate or whatever, you know,
like that gave you all these ideas. You, you know,
you don't want to give them credit. You wanna be the author of your own success.
That's right. And it starts patting you on the back and.
Yeah. I'm sorry to interrupt. No, that's fine.
You're very introspective in that regard. Like you, you have a very, um, uh,
failure.
Would failure would do that to you. Is that what.
<Laugh> but you say failure though, but you massive amounts of fans.
You're still deeply.
Respected. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm weird in that.
I've always been willing to talk about the process, which again is anti gimmic,
but also, um, uh,
I I've always approached it more like a performance artist in that I'm after the
bigger message of how work intersects with fame,
intersects personal feeling, intersects with personality and,
and, and how people perceive things.
Like I like all that weird Andy Kaufman uncomfortability. Mm that's.
Part of my attraction. Right.
So I've been willing to use myself as the battering Ram,
which is how I end up becoming a meme <laugh> right. Because people,
people latch onto these personalities I've created, which of course are,
are ancillary to my real personality. Right. But they don't,
they don't necessarily wanna gimme credit that I'm a sort of controller of the
forces at play. So if I say something dumb, people assume that I'm dumb.
It's hard for them to assume that I'm saying something dumb on purpose because I
want a reaction, right?
Yeah. When you become a,
a hugely successful musician and your life becomes
touring, big arenas, doing radio shows,
getting on the bus, getting on the plane, all this stuff.
Does it make it difficult to have like
the time or the, the actual experiences to continue to create?
Yes.
Because you get,
so deoxiggenated in the bubble that you start writing songs about being on tour.
Yeah.
Like comedians will tell jokes about airline food. Yeah. <laugh> exactly.
Yeah. You had to be coming. So sort of like,
you're trying to take people in the insularity of your experience,
but it's not that interesting. Right. And at some point it becomes unrelatable.
Well, I always say that about like, uh, I mean, there's, there's a lot of bands,
but some of the great Alman brothers are Leonard skyner like they
had a bunch of songs about leaving about getting away from whi
you know, Lord, I was born a rambling man. Rightly so. Yeah.
There was so many songs about just getting away from women. Yeah. The other day.
I heard that Crosby still's national song and it's like,
just a song before I go, it's all about he's going on tour.
And they go to the airport and it's uncomfortable. It's like,
it's such a going on tour song. Yeah. But it's like,
it's really not that relatable to most people.
You know, to a lot of people it's not. Yeah. I mean, skinrd had a load of those.
They, they really did have quite a few songs about like getting the outta Dodge,
but they were good.
Oh.
Such a great fan giant fan. I mean,
they're probably the greatest thing to ever come outta Florida. It's arguable,
you know.
I'm trying to think came outta of Florida.
Uh, Jim brewer.
I thought we were just talking about music. Did Creek came outta Florida?
<laugh> I thought we were just talking about music.
Uh, yeah. I don't have anything else when it comes to music.
Who out pit bull <laugh> yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's uh, the, the, so do you, did you feel it while it was happening?
Like when you are, you're doing these mega tours and everything,
do you feel like the staleness and the creation?
Um, I did. Yeah. I think what I tried to do is change personalities,
change musical directions to kind of reinfuse things.
And it worked up until a point until my mother died,
like in 96 in, in a,
in a weird three month period, the drummer left the band.
My mother died and I got a divorce in like a six month period.
And so I tried to use that as fuel to sort
of just pivot where I wanted to go musically,
but I wrote this very introspective, dark record,
which a lot of people really like now, but at the time it was like,
so antithetical to this big rock yeah. Machine. Um,
yeah. It was like castigate for being an idiot.
And I went from golden child to idiot, you know, and one fell swoop and yeah.
Well, so many great artists or a prisoner of their early success in long.
Ways. Yeah. And, and rightly so, you know what I mean? I,
I have a much greater appreciation for the zeitgeist effect of the public.
I don't know if that makes any sense. It's like,
it's like how many Zeit guys did Elvis have three U,
two S had two or three Frank Sinatra had two or three or four. I mean,
there's something about when it all seems to make sense,
like the public's fascination, the artist place in time,
the work that's being created, there's a sense of like familiarity,
but also something is how happening and everybody wants to take part in it.
And so I have a much greater appreciation for that moment.
The ego of the artist wants toconvince yourself.
That you're always in that moment. And that's just impossible.
That's just impossible. There's just no way.
It's just that cyclical nature of creation.
That's such an important thing to say for people listening for <affirmative>
people that like struggle with this themselves.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> hear something like you say that.
Yeah. It's it actually kind of makes sense. It's like, it's like, it's like, uh,
typical example.
It's like falling in love and expecting to feel that feeling forever. Right?
It's just not gonna happen. You're.
Not gonna feel the same. No, I.
Would argue if you are, there's something wrong, right. It's go to a doctor.
You haven't matured into a deeper relationship. So in the same thing,
an artist needs to mature into a deeper relationship with their work or their
relationship with the public or their relationship with themselves.
And if you can do that and you, and you look at great examples, Johnny Cash,
Neil, young, Tom petty, when they get there, everybody comes back,
Bob Dylan, because they think, okay, now you're giving me some new information.
Yeah. This isn't just a riff on the thing that you gave me before. And, um,
and I think the public has shown over time, the, the,
the willingness and the ability to follow artists, if they're willing,
if they're, if they're able to go to that place where they mine out,
something new,
that actually is like a cultural contribution and not just sort of more of what
they already know.
I think that's so important for you to talk about.
And I'm so glad you do because for, uh, upcoming artists and in,
in all sorts of genres,
just people who are involved in creating mm-hmm to hear someone as successful as
yourself, talk about the various struggles of the mind and,
and of momentum and the, you know,
the different stages and various points of your career. Yeah. So important.
Yeah.
The music business plays this Jedi mind trick on you where the whole thing's set
up to be repatacious and take advantage of your weakness. How so?
Well it's like, um, I, I can, I'll use the music business as an example,
and I'm sure there's plenty of parallels across the entertainment spectrum. Um,
you, you, you, you to get the contract and then the contract is sort of,
you know, the in indentured servitude type of thing. We,
our first contract was seven albums, essentially 14 years.
So I signed that contract when I was 23. That's crazy. Okay.
So I'm signing a 23 years old. I'm signing a contract.
That's supposed to take me into 37.
You'd signing a contract for more than half your life.
And, and if you look at the shelf life of most artists, it's for to,
so they're basically anticipating your entire arc. That's so crazy.
So you don't have any leverage, you know, other than that, they wanna sign you,
you sign the deal and then it becomes this weird dance of like,
can I sustain success? Yeah. If you get success and you have leverage,
they'll get out of your way. Cuz you're making them a lot of money,
but the minute you're not making them as much money,
then they step in and they start playing these Jedi mind tricks on you.
We know what to do. You know, the public's forget about you. I mean,
I've heard all these things like, you know, this kind of weird, like yeah,
you're in the room, but you know,
we're the arbiter of whether you can stay in the room.
That's the weird position that record companies had for a long time that they
don't seem to have anymore.
I wouldn't, I would argue against that because they, they still do well.
They've moved to a different set of circumstances and I'm not as conversant as
I, as I once was. But one thing they do with certain younger artists.
But I think particularly more in the pop realm is they do these 360 deals where
it's like, right. If you get a perfume deal, if you, yeah.
Like your whole world, they own you, we own a piece of your whole world.
And fame is such a great quotition in American life.
Now that you can see where kids would trade fame and give and be willing to give
away like the, the, the profit part.
Well, they'll take a risk at the long term ownership.
Right? So let me jump in there. So if you actually survive the cut, let's say,
let's call it phase one. You're successful. You're a name.
And now you're in a place to either renegotiate or your deal is up or whatever.
I once had a conversation with a very powerful music executive. And I said,
and I was friends with the guy. So I was like,
give me the insider psychology here.
Now that I know the game that you run,
what do you tell people like me when they get here? And he says, oh, it's just,
there's always a price.
So they know that even if you get through matrix of the whole thing and get out
the other side, that there's just a dollar amount that will buy you back in.
Whoa, they're not worried that you'll go independent. And in fact,
if you look at a lot of the machinations of the music business over the last 20
years, especially with the rise of the internet,
it's to keep people in the system. Yes. They don't want true independence.
Right. But.
It seems like, look, look, look,
I'll give you look no further than the deals that the record labels cut with the
streaming services, they got into ownership,
equity deals with the streaming services in an, in an,
in an arrangement for them to have an equity position.
They agreed to very low rates for the artist's music.
Ah.
So that's why, so when you, when you listen to Bob Dylan's song on Spotify,
Bob, Dylan's not getting a lot of money for that,
but as Spotify and the other streaming services raise up in their equity
position, the labels benefit.
So the labels pimped out their own artist to take a greater
equity position in a rising business. It's like, you see what I'm saying? Yeah.
They weaken the artist's position to take a better position at the table
themselves. That.
Is fascinating. And they,
they weaken the monetary position of compensation in order to get equity in the
company. Right. And, and.
Now you got, and now you see it where, uh,
metallicica's management for example has come out and, and, uh, especially, uh,
YouTube's former manager, Paul McGin has come out.
They're trying to take on YouTube now,
cuz YouTube's got this weird funky position where they'll pay on license music,
but they won't pay for covers. And you know what I mean? Yes.
Like YouTube's like one of the big targets of the business because what I ever
deal they agreed to with YouTube 10 years ago is super weak. And, but again,
these are all machinations that go on above the artist's spot. Right.
And a quick thing into your, into your world
when McGregor leap out and did the fight with Mayweather,
he creates this whole different set of dynamics because he's,
he can <affirmative> he can run his own game. Yes.
UFC can't pay him that kind of money. And last I heard is like,
maybe he's gonna do another fight. So I'm not,
I don't wanna get totally into that.
But my point is is you see where those dynamics,
where people step outside the system, it changes the game. Yeah.
So it's actually kind of, you could now, now, and I don't want to, you know,
I've never met Dana white, but if Dana white could go in a time machine,
maybe he'd pay Maywe, uh, McGregor more money to keep him in his world.
Cuz now that he's out.
I don't think Connor would've accepted that. Okay. But I think, yeah,
I think he recognized the unique opportunity that he's in.
So he probably wanted.
I'm talking about stuff as a fan. You you're on the other side of the fence,
but my point is, is when you see when breaks out of the,
sort of the matrix of how it's the game is set up, right.
It creates this weird thing.
Yeah. And there are a few today though that have kind of figured it out through
YouTube and all these different, I I think chance the.
Rapper, I don't know much about his, his business,
but I know he is sort of worked out this other model for himself.
But yeah. Jamie knows a lot about him a little bit.
Yeah. I mean, he,
I know he is getting money from way other places than just the traditional, uh,
record contract. God bless.
He's gotten big deals from major companies like Sprite and other.
And he's still independent. Right. Tech technically that's.
The word they would use to market him. Like he's an independent artist,
but he's got a machine behind him. So I don't know if he's independent,
you know? Yeah.
I'm good friends. Withurrgil Simpson.
And sturggi's tried to educate me as to how the,
the record business keeps people in,
in the fold with the owning,
your merchandise and your likeness forever and all these different things.
It seems, it seems crazy like it.
We actually signed, we actually signed a clause. It, it said,
um, and this contract pertains to this universe and any universe,
not yet discovered what we signed that clause.
Who, who wrote that? The record company, Jesus, what are they Scientology?
That is crazy.
Like we literally had to sign a thing and it was like this contract pertains to
this known universe and universe. Not yet discovered that.
Is insane. <laugh> that is insane.
Like if someone found a parallel universe somewhere and they figured out they
could sell music to them, <laugh>,
it's a parallel mu they haven't heard the smashing pumpkins get over there quick
shoot, a rocket ship filled with cash over.
There. Well that, you know, why they put that in is because the, when,
when they transitioned to CDs,
the contracts didn't account for CDs. Oh. And what they did, it was a very,
it's a very classic thing is so they had to go back and renegotiate all the
deals because of the CD technology. This would've been like,
whatever eighties Uh-huh. So they went to every artist and they said, look,
it's this new technology and we're not sure it's gonna work.
So you gotta take a price cut.
We're only gonna pay you 75 cents on the dollar.
So we could advance the new technology. Oh Jesus Christ.
They're dirty.
And.